GOVERNANCE MODE 1 – JOINT DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION

1.	Working Group Chair.  Each Working Group will designate a chair for that Working Group.  A Working Group may select a new chair upon Approval of the Working Group Participants.

2.	Working Group Requirements.  Each Working Group must be comprised of at least 2 Working Group Participants.  No Working Group Participant will be permitted to participate in a Working Group without first Joining the Working Group

3.	Working Group Decision Making.

3.1.	Consensus/Voting/Approval.  The Working Group will endeavor to make all decisions by consensus.  Where the Working Group cannot reach consensus with respect to a particular decision, the Working Group will make that decision by a Supermajority Vote of the Steering Members and Associates in this Working Group. 

3.2.	Appeals.  Working Group decisions may be appealed by issuing a written appeal to the Working Group Chair, and that appeal will be considered by the Working Group chair in good faith.  The Working Group Chair will respond in writing within a reasonable time.

3.3.	Notifications and Electronic Voting.  The Working Group Chair is responsible for issuing all notifications of meetings and votes of the Steering Members subject to the following minimum criteria: (i) in-person meetings require at least 30 days prior written notice, (ii) teleconference meetings require at least 7 days prior written notice (this requirement only applies to the notification of the first meeting of automatically recurring teleconference meetings), (iii) electronic votes require no advance notice but must be made pursuant to a clear and unambiguous ballot with only “yes” and “no” options, and the voting must remain open for no less than 7 days.  These notification requirements with respect to the Project may be overridden upon unanimous consent of all Steering Members that have attended and participated in at least 50% of the last 4 meetings of the Project.

4.	Deliverable Development Process.

4.1.	Pre-Draft.  Any Working Group Participant or Contributor may submit a proposed initial draft document as a candidate Draft Deliverable of that Working Group.  The Working Group chair will designate each submission as a “Pre-Draft” document.

4.2.	Draft.  Each Pre-Draft document of a Working Group must first be Approved by the Working Group Participants of that Working Group to become a Draft Deliverable.  Once the Working Group approves a document as a Draft Deliverable, the Draft Deliverable becomes the basis for all going forward work on that deliverable.
4.3.	Working Group Approval.  Once a Working Group believes it has achieved the objectives for its deliverable as described in the Scope, it will progress its Draft Deliverable to “Working Group Approved” status. 

4.4.	Final Approval.  Upon a Draft Deliverable reaching Working Group Approved status, the Project Chair or his/her designee will present that Working Group Approved Draft Deliverable to all Steering Members for Approval.  Upon Approval by the Steering Members, that Draft Deliverable will be designated an “Approved Deliverable.”

4.5.	Publication and Submission.  Upon the designation of a Draft Deliverable as an Approved Deliverable, the Project Chair will publish the Approved Deliverable in a manner agreed upon by the Working Group Participants (i.e., Project Participant only location, publicly available location, Project maintained website, Project member website, etc.).  The publication of an Approved Deliverable in a publicly accessible manner must include the terms under which the Approved Deliverable and/or source code is being made available under, as set forth in the applicable Working Group Charter.

4.6.	Submissions to Standards Bodies.  No Draft Deliverable or Approved Deliverable may be submitted to another standards development organization without Approval by the Steering Members.  Upon Approval by the Steering Members, the Project Chair will coordinate the submission of the applicable Draft Deliverable or Approved Deliverable to another standards development organization with Joint Development Foundation Projects, LLC.  Working Group Participants that developed that Draft Deliverable or Approved Deliverable agree to grant the copyright rights necessary to make those submissions.
